Sonal/more templates work (#4658)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/user-guide/byotemplate.md

---

## Overview
Use custom templates to quickly add your own code template to source files when you create a metadata object such as an Apex class in VS Code. Templates are files that contain your custom code. You can use custom templates to -
- Add default copyright information to new files in your project.

> - Add default code to Aura or LWC enable a new Apex class. etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add default code to Aura or LWC enable a new Apex class, etc.
```

- Add default code to Aura or LWC enable a new Apex class. etc.

Templates are essentially folders with files that contain your custom code. This [git repo](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates) contains a collection of official Salesforce templates for metadata components. Simply clone this repo, keeping the same folder structure, then update relevant template files with your code. Remove the files that you don’t wish to override.

> **Note:** Only updates made to the files listed here show up in source files in VS Code. There’s no such restriction when you use the CLI to specify templates for metadata objects.

Author: I'll confirm that we have this info in the doc already but i am not a fan of keeping that table...

> **Note:** Only updates made to the files listed here show up in source files in VS Code. There’s no such restriction when you use the CLI to specify templates for metadata objects.

Reviewer: Sounds good - agreed the table is not the prettiest of options! It is helpful because there are extra files at times, like for apexclass there is ApexUnitTest, but you can't use that with VS Code, only with the CLI.

> This [git repo](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates) contains a collection of official Salesforce templates for metadata components. Only updates made to the files listed in this repo show up in source files in VS Code. You can clone this repo, or store your custom templates locally. We require your templates to follow the exact folder structure and nomenclature as this repo. For example, your Apex class templates must be in a folder named ``apexclass`` in a file named ``DefaultApexClass.cls``. There’s no such restriction when you use the CLI to specify templates for metadata objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This [git repo subdirectory](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates) contains a collection of official Salesforce templates for metadata components. Only updates made to the files listed in this directory show up in source files in VS Code. You can clone this subdirectory, or store your custom templates locally. The Salesforce Extensions requires your templates to follow the exact folder structure and nomenclature as this repo. For example, your Apex class templates must be in a folder named ``apexclass`` in a file named ``DefaultApexClass.cls``. There’s no such restriction when you use the CLI to specify templates for metadata objects. You do not need the rest of the repo `salesforcedx-templates`.
```

Reviewer: I'm calling out the subdirectory specifically because I found `git repo` to be a confusing term when I went through these docs the first time. I downloaded the entire `https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates` because that's technically the "repo", and then had trouble figuring out where to point the `customOrgMetadataTemplates` url/path.

 You can store template files in a local directory, or in a github project. Set ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` to your custom template location:

> 1. Run ``sfdx config:set customOrgMetadataTemplates=<github repo or local template directory>`` command from the terminal inside VS Code.

Author: @randi274, all your suggestions are in the docs now except for checking if relative URLs work. I will chaeck and make that update tomorrow.

2. Open the `sfdx-config.json` config file in your `<project-folder>/.sfdx` folder and confirm that it has a new entry in the format,`` "customOrgMetadataTemplates": "<github repo or local template directory>"``.

**Note:** You can also use the CLI to set this parameter. See [CLI Runtime Configuration Values](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_setup.meta/sfdx_setup/sfdx_dev_cli_config_values.htm) for more information.

## Use Custom Templates On GitHub

> 1. Clone this [git repo](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Clone this [git repo subdirectory](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates).
```

2. In your cloned repo, delete all folders except the folders that contains the templates you want to use. 
3. Make updates to the custom templates in your repo.
4. Check that ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` points to this repo.

## Use Local Custom Templates
1. Create a folder in your VS Code project directory that'll hold your custom templates. Name the folder some intuitive, for example ``MyCustomTemplates".
2. Carefully check folder and file names in this [git repo](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates), and create sub-folders of the same names that contain the files you wish to customize. For example, create a sub-folder named ``lightningapp`` and add a file named ``DefaultLightningController.js`` to customize the default lightning controller JavaScript file, and a sub-folder named ``apexclass`` and add a file named ``DefaultApexClass.cls`` to add custom code to an Apex class. 
3. Make updates to your custom template files.
4. Check that ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` points to your custom templates directory.

> ## Make an Update to a Template in Your Repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Make an Update to a Remote Template in Github
```

VS Code downloads the template files locally (`~/.sfdx/custom-templates` on macOS/Linux or `%USERPROFILE%\.sfdx\custom-templates` on Windows) the first time the template repository is accessed. To use updated templates, clear the local cached files to download the template files again.

## Make an Update to a Local Template

> If your template file is on a your machine, any changes that you make to the template are ready for use immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your template location is on your machine, any changes that you make to the template are ready for use immediately after save. If you're not seeing an immediate change, refresh your VS Code window to clear the VS Code cache and you will then see changes reflected.
```

---

## Overview
Use custom templates to quickly add your own code template to source files when you create a metadata object such as an Apex class in VS Code. Templates are files that contain your custom code. You can use custom templates to -
- Add default copyright information to new files in your project.

> - Add default code to Aura or LWC enable a new Apex class, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add default code to Aura or LWC to enable a new Apex class, and so on.
```

**Note**:

> This [git repo subdirectory](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates) contains a collection of official Salesforce templates for metadata components. Only updates made to the files listed in this directory show up in source files in VS Code. You can clone this subdirectory, or store your custom templates locally. Keeping the same folder structure, just update relevant template files with your code. Remove the files that you don’t wish to override. The Salesforce Extensions require your templates to follow the exact folder structure and nomenclature as this repo. For example, your Apex class templates must be in a folder named ``apexclass`` in a file named ``DefaultApexClass.cls``. There’s no such restriction when you use the CLI to specify templates for metadata objects. You do not need the rest of the repo `salesforcedx-templates`.

Reviewer 2: If you store your own custom templates locally, then you need to worry about keeping the same folder structure, yes? Because if you clone, I'm assuming the structure comes with it? 
And I'm confused by "only updates made to the files listed in this directory show up..." What if you create local custom templates? I think you need to break out using the repo vs. what you do if you want to go custom. Does that make sense? And it sounds like if you the CLI your templates can be wherever.

Reviewer 2: Okay, I think I was lost until I viewed the page. I personally would decide what you need to say in the note - it's really too long. And pull any of the relevant specifics to the sub topics underneath.

> This [git repo subdirectory](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates) contains a collection of official Salesforce templates for metadata components. Only updates made to the files listed in this directory show up in source files in VS Code. You can clone this subdirectory, or store your custom templates locally. Keeping the same folder structure, just update relevant template files with your code. Remove the files that you don’t wish to override. The Salesforce Extensions requires your templates to follow the exact folder structure and nomenclature as this repo. For example, your Apex class templates must be in a folder named ``apexclass`` in a file named ``DefaultApexClass.cls``. There’s no such restriction when you use the CLI to specify templates for metadata objects. You do not need the rest of the repo `salesforcedx-templates`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This [git repo subdirectory](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates) contains a collection of official Salesforce templates for metadata components. Only updates made to the files listed in this directory show up in source files in VS Code. You can clone this subdirectory, or store your custom templates locally. Keeping the same folder structure, just update relevant template files with your code. Remove the files that you don’t wish to override. The Salesforce Extensions require your templates to follow the exact folder structure and nomenclature as this repo. For example, your Apex class templates must be in a folder named ``apexclass`` in a file named ``DefaultApexClass.cls``. There’s no such restriction when you use the CLI to specify templates for metadata objects. You do not need the rest of the repo `salesforcedx-templates`.
```

## Set Default Template Location

>  You can store template files in a local directory, or in a github project. Set ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` to your custom template location:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 You can store template files in a local directory, or in a GitHub project. Set ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` to your custom template location:
```

> 1. Run ``sfdx config:set customOrgMetadataTemplates=<github repo or local template directory>`` command from the terminal inside VS Code. 

Reviewer 2: Ah ha - some of the comments in the note now make sense but I still would prefer to see that info in context.

2. Run ``sfdx config:list`` to confirm that the configuration setting is updated. 

> **Note:** The `sfdx-config.json` config file in your `<project-folder>/.sfdx` folder now has a new entry in the format,`` "customOrgMetadataTemplates": "<github repo or local template directory>"``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** The `sfdx-config.json` config file in your `<project-folder>/.sfdx` folder is updated with a new entry in the format,`` "customOrgMetadataTemplates": "<github repo or local template directory>"``.
```

 See [CLI Runtime Configuration Values](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_setup.meta/sfdx_setup/sfdx_dev_cli_config_values.htm) for more information about configuration settings.

## Set Template Location Examples

> -  ``sfdx config:set customOrgMetadataTemplates=https://github.com/vscodeuser/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates/ ``sets the ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` configuration value to a directory on user ``vscodeuser``'s github repo.

Reviewer 2: I would use "GitHub" wherever you mention it

> -  ``sfdx config:set customOrgMetadataTemplates=https://github.com/vscodeuser/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main ``sets the ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` configuration value to a directory on user ``vscodeuser``'s github repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  ``sfdx config:set customOrgMetadataTemplates=https://github.com/vscodeuser/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates/ ``sets the ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` configuration value to a directory on user ``vscodeuser``'s github repo.
```

-   ``sfdx config:set customOrgMetadataTemplates=/Users/vscodeuser/CustomTemplateProject/MyCustomTemplates`` sets the ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` configuration value to the ``MyCustomTemplates`` directory on a local machine.

## Use Custom Templates On GitHub
1. Clone this [git repo subdirectory](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates).
2. In your cloned repo, delete all folders except the folders that contains the templates you want to use. 
3. Make updates to the custom templates in your repo.
4. Check that ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` points to this repo.

> ## Use Local Custom Templates

Reviewer 2: Am I understanding correctly that you have to exactly mirror the folder names and file names in the sample repo. I would move that info from note down here and make that explicit in the intro to this section

> 1. Create a folder in your VS Code project directory that'll hold your custom templates. Name the folder something intuitive, for example "MyCustomTemplates".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a folder in your VS Code project directory to hold your custom templates. Name the folder something intuitive, for example "MyCustomTemplates".
```

> 1. Create a folder in your VS Code project directory that'll hold your custom templates. Name the folder something intuitive, for example ``MyCustomTemplates".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a folder in your VS Code project directory that'll hold your custom templates. Name the folder something intuitive, for example "MyCustomTemplates".
```

2. Carefully check folder and file names in this [git repo](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates), and create sub-folders of the same names that contain the files you wish to customize. For example, create a sub-folder named ``lightningapp`` and add a file named ``DefaultLightningController.js`` to customize the default lightning controller JavaScript file, and a sub-folder named ``apexclass`` and add a file named ``DefaultApexClass.cls`` to add custom code to an Apex class. 
3. Make updates to your custom template files.
4. Check that ``customOrgMetadataTemplates`` points to your custom templates directory.

> ## Make an Update to a Remote Template in Github

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Make an Update to a Remote Template in GitHub
```

VS Code downloads the template files locally (`~/.sfdx/custom-templates` on macOS/Linux or `%USERPROFILE%\.sfdx\custom-templates` on Windows) the first time the template repository is accessed. To use updated templates, clear the local cached files to download the template files again.

## Make an Update to a Local Template

> If your template location is on your machine, any changes that you make to the template are ready for use immediately after save. If you're not seeing an immediate change, refresh your VS Code window to clear the VS Code cache and you will then see changes reflected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your template location is on your machine, any changes that you make to the template are ready for use immediately after save. If you're not seeing an immediate change, refresh your VS Code window to clear the VS Code cache to then see the changes reflected.
```

---

## Overview
Use custom templates to quickly add your own code template to source files when you create a metadata object such as an Apex class in VS Code. Templates are files that contain your custom code. You can use custom templates to -
- Add default copyright information to new files in your project.
- Add default code to Aura or LWC to enable a new Apex class, and so on.

**Note**:

> This [git repo subdirectory](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-templates/tree/main/src/templates) contains a collection of official Salesforce templates for metadata components. Only updates made to the files listed in this directory show up in source files in VS Code. You can clone this subdirectory, or replicate it locally. Keeping the same folder structure, just update relevant template files with your code. Remove the files that you don’t wish to override.

Reviewer 2: I would say it even more powerfully. You must keep the same folder structure. You can then just update relevant...

Author: Thanks again for the feedback. Done.
